In the next lecture we will create our first subscriber and will actually handle some events that are
being dispatched by the light of an application itself.
So some built in events.
But before we do that we'll learn the basics of logging in LA though because what we will actually do
will log some information when something happens in light of all.
So let's first take a look at the logging peach bee inside your config folder to understand the basics
of configuring the loggers inside your larval up.
So first you will need to understand what logs is.
And basically they are well the name should say anything but basically you will write some information
about what has happened inside your application and you can even find the logs they write directory
inside the storage folder.
So those are simple text files that contain some information whenever something has failed.
You had some errors or well you might add some additional logs saying what has happened in your application
to later review that because it's always best to add some logging when you have your application working
on production servers because maybe that will be the only one to figure out what actually has happened
leading to an error.
Or sometimes you might just log some information that you will use for calculating how your application
performs things like that.
So you are just saying along the way when something happens in your application what has happened.
But the main benefit of logs is always checking the details.
Error messages when something didn't work.
So now let's take a look at the configuration so looks consists of our Fink called channels.
So you specify where you would like those logs to be put.
So this has to be one of those configured channels inside the channels array and the default one is
stuck.
So what stuck is is all those logs have our specific driver assigned to them like stuck single daily
or even slug.
So we can log something on a slug you can use monologue which is a great library for logging.
Basically a peach bee standard.
So you should always use it.
And of course a lot of it is utilizing it.
So there is a configuration for a paper trail tool that's our cloud slash solution for keeping logs
and reading them.
And also you can log to the standard error do that since log which is a Unix way of storing logs end
to the error log.
So whenever you configure some driver you will specify some additional parameters.
The most important one is of course the driver for our channel.
Then those driver might require some additional data for example the single is basically storing something
in a file so Daniel specify what that path is for those files then important setting is also eye level.
So it will say from which level this logs should be logged because logs have different levels some of
them can information some of them can be debugging information some of them can be errors and others
are critical.
So something really bad has happened.
For example you can see that on slack you have a default level of critical because well usually when
you are using this tool slack you know that well having too many messages is just bad.
So you should only see if something is really critical.
Now you can also mix those configure channels and drivers.
So for example basically the stack driver lets you combine some different channels together.
So for example in this conflict this is very simple.
So using this default stock driver actually is using the daily channel.
So this would just create those daily files that you can see here inside up storage logs for every day.
You will have a separate file with the suffix log.
So log extension.
Now you can also configure some other channels here so you can add for example slack and then whatever
you are logging will be pushed to the daily whenever the error message message or the log level is at
least debug and then it will also be posted to slack but using Slack settings.
So whenever something is at least critical so let's remove that because we do not have the slack configured.
And now let's see how we can use this logging.
So let's round peach bee artisan Tinker and you can post logs using the log for seed and then log has
some methods that you can use to specify what's the level of the error.
So as I've said you can have info which is the lowest level.
So info can be something like hello so it doesn't return anything.
There is also log log warning.
That's a higher level a warning
or log error or something really bad.
Now let's take a look at this file.
You need to open the fire which matches the date when you are using this course.
So for me it's for example 12th of May.
And you can see I have all of those messages inside my log file so they all contain environment man
name.
So this would be by default used as an environment name in which we are currently working.
So we are on local environment.
So this is local on test.
This would be probably test and on production are production environment.
Then we have a log level.
And the actual message.
So you can see this is what I have just created.
Obviously those messages that I've created do not make any sense they are useless.
I just wanted to show you how this would work.
So those are the basics of logging how to use that you can of course read more inside the documentation
because this would only make sense when you actually start putting your application on a production
server logs locally are useful but not as useful when your application works on production servers.
So we know the basics of logs and now in the next lecture we will actually create a subscriber that
will listen to couple of events of LA Evo.
So remember that distinction between leased and are and subscriber so list and are only can handle one
type of an event and subscriber can contain logic of handling a couple of types of events at once.
And what we will do is we'll create a subscriber that will listen to the cash events of Lavell so we'll
know whether something was actually read from the cash or read directly from the database.
So then you will you can use that information for example for some analytics that you have like whatever
that is Google Analytics some tools like promontory graph pharma to display some dashboards of how your
application is performing.
So let's see that in the next lecture.